Tkhlpzyv -- init
  size: 125, 124, 280
  stopped growing at age 8
  job is retrieval
  something odd in childhood (Panel 144)
Jzaprvlt -- apprentice
  size: 133, 150, 400
  enthusiastic, yet arrogant?
  economic reform e.g. Iiorxhjb's stuff.
  Age 5 (Panel 096) 49/60 of life remain (Panel 234)
  interested in learning repair not just retrieval
  (also, has "Jay")
  photonic cybernics
  extensive valuational and reflectional capabilities
Vcypcsua -- a friend
  job is study/repair of those subjects
  Vc knows Jz less well then Tk knows Jz?
Cduunyzt -- random passenger
  "primary-school teacher"-ish
Uinojwdk -- random passenger
Ywsaznxd -- surgeon
  grumpy-obsessed, talks like Robocop or something.

Did anyone spot that Su-4-7 is co-ordinates in nm, hence slightly over 8nm away?
- yes, amc(ish)

Linear Small-Body Accelerator
anyone spot ERR_AIPROG ?
anyone spot http://www.lonestarbowhunter.com/ ?

Sandals
apprentice (who we meet in Su-4-7)
net-ambient = "present" everywhere there is internet access
pattern-slices = some kind of virtual object; can take days to build
perspective-set = would be cluttered by too many pattern-slices, unless they are "disperceive"d
BNI = bulk non-contact interface; the things in the helmet interface
PRI = proximate radio interface
Original helmet cable has massive plugs that "extend" the standard data cable plug, which is why a normal data cable *can* connect to helmet.

--

none: radio
recognised, timmy has some: plastic, marble, shotgun cartridge

they are near "the Wall" (North)

Timmy (Jones?) -- blue
  size: 53, 82, 76
Shewson -- protgonist #2
(LN-4-7-22)
  size: same as Tkhlpzyv
* Some parts of mind act as "voices" due to misconfiguration
  is unusual for a feral due to relationship with human
    but not *that* unususal (234/235)
  Can talk a bit (200)
Mr Dahnel Jones -- old
  size: 63, 103, 103

"the war"
culling (219)
  68 years ago (339)
  62 years ago decided that that was a bad idea (339)
Bit of plane tastes all tingly: http://www.mspaintadventures.com/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?p=648131#p648131

Ares/Aresians (i.e. planet Mars) is female, Aphrodit/Aphroditan (Venus) is male.
  The colours are... sexually apppropriate  :-|

Selek (orig)
Khalt (lying next to Selek)

--

Su-x8-5
Jz was already going to arrive "much earlier" than Tk.
Jz will proceed without Tk:
http://www.mspaintadventures.com/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?p=676690#p676690
http://www.mspaintadventures.com/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?p=702718#p702718

---

Todo:
>Graph of computer progress (y) vs time (x): Have an asymptote at y=1
Voices: Fondly regard simulation
Fix it...
Swim around and look at the assorted pond wildlife.
>Eat one of those fish that are swimming around there.
Shooting star: defy expectations.
>Make sure not to hurt yourself on the pointy part.
- P7
> Interact with the light blue one I guess?
Dark blue, then ligt blue, then yellow, slowly increasing in complexity(?), then the supercomputer.
Investigate the stellar decahedron. Its pattern has already presented itself in the simulation.
>Go for the one that looks like a sun.
Use magnetic field lines to repel streams of charged particles from the star shaped object
>Okay, now try that light blue one in the top center
>Concentrate on the new feeling. Attempt to modify the construct responsible for it.
>See what happens if you move some of the icons into each other.
- P8
Try to either restart the interface or temporarily deactivate all perception activity. Heck, do both.
-P9
>Proceed to Su-4-7. If you feel like going over the basics of how that is accomplished, that would be nice too.
>While you're waiting, take inventory of your current capabilities.
-P10
> Bring them back to the computer room and see if things have changed with the computer now that you've seen them I guess?
-P11
...okay... now what?
Access the data-cable by plugging in your helmet into the computer and hope that those things are connected.
>I think the first order of business is to ascertain exactly where we are and how to get somewhere else.
-P12
>Start walking, or maybe flying, back to the spaceport.
Produce signal map for Michael Jackson's "Thriller"
>ahahahahah
Ascend.
Ah, crap. I hope we didn't break anything important.
Jz: decide it would be faster to just fly there yourself.
Anything left to do but just wait?
> Fast forward.
-P13:
> Reflect on said childhood, and how it relates to this "unusual style."
Tk: Locate your wayward apprentice before he does something stupid.
Then make sure your apprentice isn't doing anything foolish and impetuous.
((Also, how exactly does each symbol translate into each Latin character? 3 does not divide into 7 or 8 (the number of letters of each name, as far as I can see), and the 4 or 5 names that we have seen seem to be too much of a coïncidence that they manage to use ALL symbols that needs three letters to translate.. :befuddled: ))
>Medical facilities: Fail to properly repair Tk's brain.
>Wait for the other guy maybe?
Jz: See if Tk has repaired the systems that had been EMP'd. If not, he is therefore incapacitated, and you must carry on in his stead.
-P14
>Other guy: Status report
>Tk: Burst out of the surgery room before it is complete, wreak havoc on the city with your incomplete mind having both gone insane and developed hyper-powerful telekenetic abilities
Shewson: Explore the alien spaceship. Note how everything seems to be made for you.
Timmy: Feel oddly triangular.
Jz/Ship: Begin activating systems upon detecting "Shewson"'s genetic code.
Shewson, Timmy: Explore and experiment.
>Press all the buttons.
Jz: Consider degree to which the severed cable was necessary for your ship's proper operation. Then try to isolate the feral from the human.
-P15
Jz: Call out to whomever is there.
Jz: Mentally incapacitate the approaching entity.
Timmy: Burn the witch! Wait, you don't know where the witch is, and you shouldn't play with matches...
Jz: While absconding, assess the damage the subject and its human incurred on your ship.
Jz: Check up on Tkhlpzyv.
Unknown Adult: Realize that a) Timmy is unconscious, and b) the overgrown lizard seems to be trying to help by dragging Timmy out of the way of whatever they apparently encountered. And since it, whatever it is, seems to be dangerous, be on guard.
Jz: Be careful if adult human decides to be aggressive.
>Jz: Maybe you should simplify the situation by rendering the adult unconscious.
-P16
Adult Human: Figure out what's going on here.
> This is starting to get too complicated, prepare a Secondary Plan where the adult human's memories of you and the subject get erased, you wouldn't want the human to harm your subject with its dagger. But for plan A [...]
Jz: Consider that perhaps your subject has been kept -secret- from most of the humans excepting its companion. That would explain the reaction.
It isn't kosher to tell the characters directly about humans [i.e. "As a human, I know...", is it?
Timmy: Start crying.
Adult: Suddenly remember you had to go get some groceries in town; forget why you were in the woods in the first place, and leave.
Jz: Harming the humans is, at the moment, out of the question, especially when the subject trusts you enough to try to protect you, The logical options are a: let things go as they will here with the two humans, or b: follow the subject and conduct research ("research"   ) without the humans' accompaniment.
Shewson: Keep pulling, knives are more dangerous than that one time where Timmy scraped his knee on a rock, he started bleeding a bit and he cried, but it was only a small cut, you know knives will only make bigger cuts, and you don't want to see this girl dragon get hurt and bleed/cry.
Jz: Since the subject is a lot calmer, now might be the right time to probe its mind with your sensors, maybe in the process you can learn what it knows about the human language.
Shewson: teach the girl dragon how to climb trees and pretend to fly.
Timmy: remember what Mr. Jones told you about the war. Didn't it involve dragons?
Jz: Search memory for previous excursions into this particular world, including conflicts with the humans. This human is old and may well have memories of conflict.
>Cause a temporal paradox by throwing your knife at one of the dragon's faces.
-P17
Adult Human: Get the child back to the others, quickly- The people need to hear what has taken place.
Others: Uhoh! Mr. Jones forgot to take his medication again!
Mr.Jones: YOU GOTTA BELIEVE ME, ITS TRUE!
Timmy: Run away now that Mr. Jones is distracted!
>If you can't find a better place to sleep, dig a hole in the side of a hill.
>Shewson: Try to teach the new friend GEROMY to talk. Maybe with body language if you don't know how to talk much yourself.*
Jay(modified): You need to learn how to talk to your new friend, see if it can teach you how
Jz(unmodified): Compare this mission to other missions idly, log mistakes and successes to improve future missions. Review what the point of this mission is.
Jz (unmodified) Identify the other creatures, please.
Jz: Identify creatures and their threat to the subject.
Small red thing: Hide behind big red thing.
Red things: Be all cute.
Red things: Have black feet, not red feet, like proper red things. Or perhaps the red feet are just a consequence of Shewson and Timmy's native art style.
-P18
J: *muffled* Your tongue! It's got your tongue! Stay extremely still and go prone.
Jz(unmodified): Damage assessment, take any recouperative action needed.
Jay: Claw it to make it let go, then get Shewson to back away slowly with you
>See if you can reach a mutually beneficial agreement with them.
Zap the big red quadriped with your metapsycic faculties.
Jz: Snuggle some more, you know you want to
Then contact your pal Tk and explain what is going on
Be sort of arrogant and rationalize a different plan of action anyway.
Quickly strike up conversation with everyone from the spaceport and see if they have input, if they can spare the proc-cycles to respond.
General query: What was the reason for the culling?
Shewson: MAKE CONFLICT
Tk: Consider supplying Jz with food and defense in some way, maybe indirectly if you can't travel right now for some reason.
>
TK: Support Jay indirectly by providing high-process-requirement data that Jay cannot spare cycles / time towards.
OR
TK: Document some more flaws in Jays work, and then find a good work-around for the aftermath.
Jay: Find a short-term food source within reach without disturbing the feral- Interrupting its rest cycle may cause issues.
Shewson: Try really hard to think, or even dream (!) about when you were first found.
Vc: Go over the summary data for your next feral.
Human Child: Try to explain yourself.
Adult Humans: Severely chastise human child, continue war preparations and fortification.
Jz: work together with Tk to find an ingenious way to amplify your REMI signals
Tk: also send support, just in case.
Shewson: dragon-purr and snuggle harder :P
Jay: Be embarrassed! (is the TALK still functioning right now?)
Tk: Elaborate further on the technology level of the human civilization on this planet.
Jz: Encode the necessary linguistic information into the TALK-VM. Set its current goal to keep the other dragon away from danger. Activate it.
Jay: Warn the other dragon not to go back!!!
Jz: This is more a question for the author, but what exactly do you mean by "experiment" with its state of mind? Is it just like a simple scan or can modifications be made? Can you communicate in this manner? If so, you should start trying to convince "Shewson" to return to civilization with you... forever. Maybe to entice it you could mention the ability to interact with many more of your species and the capability to expand his knowledge and capabilities far beyond their current levels.
-P19
Jz: Watch and learn.
Hm. If they are reasonable, then simply explaining to them that you intend to take this individual and leave may be the least dangerous course of action, but I'm not sure if they would respond well so...
Tk: Attempt to explain that you only mean to remove this fellow "dragon" from the environment, and mean them no harm.
Failing that, gauge their reaction to intimidation.
Tk: Assess what you can of the conversation, and the extent of their knowledge about your kind.
Shewson: This is really scary so run away.
Shewson: cry.
I am assuming the italic text is Tk influencing Shewson's mind. If this is correct (or if Tk would agree with the italic text in any case):
Tk: Render the subject unconscious and comply with their demands.
[[Call the ship back to pick them up as quickly as possible,]] while using telekinesis to place obstacles in the path of the arrows, prioritized according to the value of their target if it is not possible to intercept all of them. If there are no rocks or logs sufficiently large nearby, then [[use the less valuable person as the obstacle.]]
-P20
Shewson: Try your best to pronounce human words. Tell them Timmy is your best friend, and you were playing with a magic wand but you didn't mean to hurt him and then you met the new dragon and she helped you take Timmy to get help but everyone got mad and now you're scared.
Jz: Now that Tk is no longer controlling you, apply your own valuation to decide your course of action. If the probability that you will be killed in an escape attempt is too high, it may be less dangerous to have your ship get at least 1 km away, then focus on a large swath of land that includes the locations of the humans. You only need enough precision to crush the humans without harming yourself.
Next time you have an opportunity, try pulling out the damaged bar with your tail.
>Aha, progress! Eat the meat calmly, then go back to the corner until the human leaves.
>Maybe you can use it to pry the bars apart.
-P21
>Use leverage against the bars to tear it from his grip, or else break it in half.
> Steal that knife
> Wait until human(s) have left you unsupervised. Then chew through forelimb restraints to assist in remainder of escape attempt.
once you are no longer bound, examine the wobbly floor tile.
>Try not to wake the subject if it is sleeping, it will most likely panic.
>is there anything you can use to pick the lock?
> Check the human for keys.
-P22
>If you can cut or break the rope on the next hatch as you run past it, do so.
now flee.
> Nudge whoever's nudging you back to get it to stop.
-P23
Shewson: Suddenly realize you miss timmy, fill the void with your female friend :3
J: Examine tunnel.
-P24
A rope like structure should do the trick, such as a VINE, or heck, a rope!
You probably gooed the ceiling by passing through it (i.e. turned it soft and elastic).
> Now run, run down the +D2 corridor! Or walk. There's no hurry.
Jzaprvlt> Follow the subject, he could not protect itself without a weapon.
LN-4-7-22> POV change, why are you going forward?
He obviously has some form of incentive to go forward.
Shewson: Follow your friend some more, she seems to know what's going on.
About the attacks, maybe one of your kind whom you do not know is helping the humans out. and about the blood, maybe when the humans were done with their "help" they attempted to destroy it because they thought it was dangerous, if this is true, it might still be alive enough to hide in the tunnels and try to escape.
Theoretically of course.
>Jay: At least attempt some form of communication, or try to learn the subject's as fast as you can. Communication is important, and is imperative if any courtship- I mean cooperation is to take place.
POV change> LN-4-7-22> Continue forward.
-P25
> Jz: Since it is unlikely that you could fit back through that gap again, go forwards instead.
>Jz: just make sure shewson doesn't hurt himself.
Thread: Moan like a zombie and rise from the dead.
>Shewson: accidentally find an exit 
Shewson: Comically be in the way. 
-P26
Shewson: Wonder what the little things your friend is playing with are.
See if the broken block of computer can break the bars back in image 300. If it can we can rope up.
> What's in it then?
Ram robot by mistake.
-P27
>Tkhlpzyv: initiate rescue mission
Ship AI> Get hijacked.
Tkhlpzyv> Keep following the ships movement, then TO THE RESCUE!
>Talk to him. Make sure he's okay.
> Tk: Create a symbolic representation of a human face on the ISD, and if possible animate its mouth to match any speech you transmit. This may put the captured human at least somewhat at ease.
-P28
> Question the human about "Where are the 2 dragons being taken to?" If he does not give a favorable reply, threaten with death or extreme mutilation. 
>AbsurdityPhone
>Communication Flower
Look at what's in the other side first.
>tell your friend
Gtfo.

---
---

threads:
Jz meets another group?
Humans are longer-lived, and consider that things from decadces ago can still be relevant.

Jz overdoes the "attraction" thing a bit
  Shewson will break down if seperated.

Need to re-state that Sh thinks self is female.  How?
  "Are all dragons girls?"
  or maybe from Mr Jones saying about "seduction" :-!

Sh will be socially retarded without REMS

Jz: apply knowlege of economics to humans
Fabbing gifts.  Glass beads.
  Bribing individuals or groups?
Art / decoration

What else does Tk do?
  no immedaite use, but the chance of a big win; i.e. random creativeity or 20% time.
  something with the fabber?
    molecular computation?
  something with junk?
  do that instead of searching?
  Is being boring a crime?
Tk: be misc computational node?
Help Vcypcsua
  A subject corners itself (need a word for this)
    hang on that's more of a teacher's job isn't it?
  reveal feral seeding
    researching mechanisms to avoid cornering
  Decide on the study:repair ratio of subjects
    repair produces interesting individuals
    study produces innovation
    also experiment on non-into-corner-painting mechanisms
      aha! conflict of goals of the exercise!!!!!!
What did I say about Tk's origin anyway?
  could it cause Tk to be more emotional?
  Could be a good reason to put Tk on the job
Tk: Make a Patrick Stewart speech.

Shewson as hostage?
iterations?  Fourth maybe?
  Pqeynkqo's theorem: cannot self-install perfect memory-blocker
  (e.g. tmp-VMS leakage)
  This time Tk knew a way to use the sensors to escape
Sh banging head on wall?
(searchers) find dead Jz?
maybe it is an arena after all?
not zero gravity, *low* (light alt-Earth)
  no, alt-Venus
  hence the robots for Su-4-7
* enough RFI focus for levitation but not for manipulation
  How do they do the gravity then?  *do* they?
* remote controlled by nats
* no personal inter-su comms?
squiddly things?!
excess broth-cooks

Gaia get involved
small flying-around thing
people annoyed as Dahnel Jones
hacking

wall markings in newly-lit room?
teaching
Jz views Sh as a burden?
  Tries teaching?
  Time for language stuff? (219)
Think about own (in)capabilities: what don't you know?
look back on what has happened
time to consider and consolidate learnings
  performance review for Jzaprvlt
  RECAP!
argh that will all require so many words
Jz has a concept of pain but Shewson doesn't?

Can Shewson talk or not?
  Yes! (200)
Aphroditans found under small building?
Also checking finds that some citizens have been modified?
  e.g. Tk?
Shewson drag Jzaprvlt away from comms+sensors

---
---

[i]You could try praying but you aren't really qualified to write prayers.  Maybe try using something for general freedom from imprisonment.[/i]

---

Vc: You were not available to talk to when I discovered this, and were later available for too short a time for me to contact you.

---

agreement hu-Aph:
humans get aid
humans get some tech?
Aphroditans get tech
Aphroditans do defending
Aphroditans get prisoners  <-- ??

agreement Aph-Ki:
Aph release prisoners
Ki give tech (no self-destruct)
Ki give documentation

Hu-Ki:
Ki tell truth
humans stop hating them


unsaid things:
not from mars
not female
not both theirs
dumping-ground

---

[QUOTE=Ariamaki;3810256]>
TK: Support Jay indirectly by providing high-process-requirement data that Jay cannot spare cycles / time towards.
OR
TK: Document some more flaws in Jays work, and then find a good work-around for the aftermath.[/QUOTE]

You decide that this would be a good time to reflect
on what has happened over the hours since your last proper rest
and how well you have done. 
Such introspection is vital to spotting of systematic weaknesses.

You intended to travel from Subuniverse(0,0) to Su-4-7
to retrieve a feral indivial known as LN-4-7-22,
whom had been placed there 8 years ago
to test new anti-lockout systems incorporated into it,
as well as for general study of the effects on development.
You rose, picked up your tools,
and arranged to meet up with Jzaprvlt over in Su-4-7.
As you set out you discussed the translation tool with Vcypcsua
and found out that Jz had been making some poorly-planned changes to it without telling you.

You started flying in the direction of the spaceport,
but on your way something
(quite possibly some Aphroditans, though you didn't know of them at the time)
hit you with an EMP,
destroying your radio capabilities and knocking you unconscious.
Upon waking you were too tired to take off,
so you sought shelter in a small building nearby.
You eventually learnt it had (at least) two functions:
an anchor-point for the ascent-structure at the spaceport you were heading to,
and a container for a project kept secret to avoid it being slowed down by over-resourcing:
a supercomputer attached to a helmet capable of direct concept injection into the mind.

You re-fitted the one block of computronium that had been removed from a rack of the supercomputer,
then donned the helmet.
It paralysed you by design,
and after struggling with the interface
you resorted to cutting power to most of the building in order to disconnect.
[i]Using the helmet system was rather dangerous in retrospect.
You might have been better off just waiting until someone turned up.
Also cutting the power with more precision would have been a good idea,
and especially that for the anchor point.[/i]
The power-off also removed a barrier in a doorway,
thus allowing you into the next room,
where you mis-adjusted the controls for the cooling systems of the anchor-point
and were able to get internet access to tell Jzaprvlt what was going on.
[i]Again not something you shoul dhave been fiddling with.[/i]
The powering-off and cooling system misconfiguration
indirectly delayed Jz's upward journey from the equivalent spaceport over in Su-x8-5.

There were some lifts and dumbwaiters leading to/from below the building,
but their power cables were damaged and you never found out what was down there.
You flew onward to the spaceport,
where you had surgery performed by Ywsaznxd to help your recovery
(which will take days even with that help).
(Ywsaznxd is watching you as you write this; you wonder why.)

Jzaprvlt had decided to go over to Su-4-7 without you.
After locating LN-4-7-22, Jz found that it was friends with a young human,
but did not consider the (true) possiblity that this fact had been concealed from the rest of the humans
and that they would be afraid of and/or aggressive towards the subject.
[i]Your experience is needed to comprehend
such complex outcomes of human nature and society.
Letting Jz go out alone was a mistake.
Jz has only been on a few missions before, always accompanied by you.[/i]

The subject and the young human had noticed the spacecraft descending,
and Jz arranged that they would encounter it and enter.
(Also the human called Dahnel Jones must have noticed.)
From monitoring them, Jzaprvlt was able to tell something about
how the subject's mind had developed:
some parts of it are almost disconnected from the parts that have control of the body.
This is a success; such division is a safety mechanism that stopped
the subject from psychomodifying itself at (around age 4)
into a state which it could not escape
as normal configs will do 56/60 of the time without supervision
(and about 7/60 of the time even if supervised).

Upon leaving the spacecraft, LN-4-7-22 took a tool,
and accidentally used it to render the human unconscious.
While trying to take the young human back to safety,
the subject encountered Jzaprvlt,
who induced strong attraction sensations into its mind.
The effects are strong enough that they will cause problems later when anaylsing the subject;
Jzaprvlt will have to be present continuously at first.
[i]That effect is certainly very skillful, but it really wasn't the right solution.
Actually concentrating on the input that Jz was getting from the sensors
could have have stopped what happened next.[/i]

Jzaprvlt and the subject encountered Dahnel,
thereby confirming Da's suspicions that you were Aresians
(innacurate, because it lterally means that you are from "Ares" i.e. Mars,
but that is what your species were considered to be by these humans last time).
The young human had recovered,
and along with Jzaprvlt managed to dissuade Dahnel from violence
long enough that Jz and the subject could get away.
[i]Which was admittedly better than in Jz weren't there,
but it wouldn't have happened at all if Jz hadn't landed in the first place.
You really ought to have forbade Jzaprvlt from even landing
while you were in surgery.[/i]

[i]And then follows a demonstration of even more skill than above,
and put to an even worse solution,
both beyond what you are capable of in opposite ways.[/i]
Jzaprvlt decided to create a new valuation and motivational system within Jz,
who took the subject many kilometers north,
where they stayed in some woodland once night arrived.
It was only then that Jz's main VMS resumed control and contacted you,
by which point LN-4-7-22 could neither be safely be separated from Jz,
nor be taken fully away from its young human.

As Jzaprvlt was practicing human phonemes for use by Jz and Jz's new VMS,
human archers approached from the south
(you now know they were guided there by the Aphroditans)
while an Aphroditan EMP unit approached from the north.
(That name is also inaccurate as it literally means they are from Venus,
but you would have noticed by now if they were.)
You tried to rescue Jzaprvlt with the the spacecraft,
but it was shot down by the Aphroditans, who then took Jz away.

You captured Dahnel in the spacecraft, learnt Da's name,
then talked to Da and set up the three-way negotiations that you just had.
You put together the eldavrs as portable communication with you.
It contains internet, sensors, sound and image emission, and a fabber.
It and the spacecraft now have self destruct capability:
the one by its own means,
the other by a solar collecting satellite being ready to deliver a power beam to it.

---

You find, as you have found before,
that Jzaprvlt all too often does very clever things
without always putting them to the right use.
(More than you do.)
The real difference this time was that Jz was unrestrained.
You begin to construct the balancing tweaks you want to make to you and Jz in the near future.




















